# Maya Angelou Word Cloud Poem Generator 
# DESCRIPTION: 
# Maya Angelou served our world as an acclaimed poet and story teller from 1928 - 2014, but the meaning behind her words and the strength of her actions have continued. Maya's poems have always moved me, especially lines from "The Human Family" and "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings". When Professor Harmon and I talked several weeks ago about how to approach M6, we discussed two routes: the machine learning/AI one or deep diving into Maya Angelou as an author. Given my course history, taking FML and AI, that would have been the more comfortable option but because our course centers around creativity, the second option was more appealing. When researching Maya Angelou, I discovered that after being raped by her mother's boyfriend when she was only seven years old and her uncle killed him. Maya felt responsible for the events and became mute for the next five years, but fell in love with poetry. Second, her poems are not celebrated for their poetic virtue or artistic prose, but rather the words and language have power and tie into greater themes like Black beauty, women empowerment, and human strength and resiliency. Given Maya chose not to speak for five years, it was important to me that my poem generator spoke in the voice of a woman (although apple has not added Black women vocals yet), have some visual component, and focus on the words she chooses not so much the poetry. That made me think about how to display words visually and research word clouds and frequency maps. 
# 
# SET UP AND RUN: 
# Changes that you may need to make ahead of time: the themes you want to use (you can find that list in the evaluate_poem method), the folder/data base you pull poems from, and then be aware that when prompted for the number of words you want in the word cloud - that should be between 0 - 100. If you choose not to change the defaults, simply run the program and enter the number of words you want inside the word cloud and then listen for the list to be read from the voice. Consider the themes that we know Maya Angelou cared to express and then which words may be more or less emphasized in the cloud. Word clouds lended themselves so well to my goals because they show the words and phrases that mattered enough to Maya Angelou, she tied them throughout many of her poems. 
# 
# CHALLENGE: 
# Have done very little work with computer graphics, text to speech converters, and matching similarities between lists of words. M6 taught me that you have to know what problem you want to solve before you start writing code - that was crucial to my success. Over the last couple weeks, I learned how to use spaCy, NLTK, and other natural language processors in Python and was experimenting with how to link words and sentences together based on grammar and parts of speech, but eventually, when turning back to Maya as her own person, realized the program should represent the things that mattered to her poems: the words as stand alone items and combining all the facts of her life. This was challenging because we had so much freedom, but the final result feels unique and representative of Maya Angelou's essense. 
#
# RESEARCH PAPERS: 
# (1) Development of Word Cloud Generator Software Based on Python by Yuping Jin
# https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877705817302230
# Short paper, but helped me come up with the concept of using word clouds here even though the author did not use this for poetry analysis. 
# (2) https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9358693 - Learned that you can ignore stopwords 
# (3) https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0747563220303034
